---
title: Mrs. Higgins To Higgins
image: /mrsh.webp
icon: game-icons:chat-bubble
outer_style: -left-[10%] bottom-0 scale-[60%]
popover_style: top-0 z-30 scale-[160%]
---
Mrs. Higgins, Professor Higgins' mother, is critical of her son's experiment with Eliza. While Professor Higgins boasts that he has perfected Eliza's "pronunciation" and deems her ready for an upper-class ambassador's party, Mrs. Higgins disagrees after watching Eliza's awkward interactions with other guests, saying that she's "not presentable."
<!--more-->
While Professor Higgins boasts that he has perfected Eliza's "pronunciation" and deems her ready for an upper-class ambassador's party, Mrs. Higgins disagrees after witnessing Eliza's awkward interactions with other guests, declaring her "not presentable". Mrs. Higgins' also asks about Eliza's living arrangements and the terms of her stay, to which Professor Higgins only responds with details about her lessons. Mrs. Higgins then accuses her son of treating Eliza like a "doll" and presses him on what will become of Eliza after the experiment. When Professor Higgins casually suggests Eliza can "go her own way," Mrs. Higgins becomes angry. She says that Eliza lacks the "manners and habits" necessary to live as a lady, but Higgins remains dismissive. As they leave, Mrs. Higgins is furious at her son's disregard for Eliza's well being. The transformation is progressing, but it's not yet complete. In Higgins' eyes, everything is going according to plan, and he expects Eliza's linguistic quirks to be fixed in due time. Higgins' attitude mirrors that of Pygmalion towards Galatea's transformation in the original myth. Just as Pygmalion shaped Galatea and decided to marry her immediately upon her transformation, Higgins believes he alone controls Eliza's fate. However, Mrs. Higgins represents a new voice: Eliza's. While Higgins sees no potential problems, Mrs. Higgins worries about Eliza's future after her transformation. Will she be able to live as a lady despite her poor manners? Unlike in Ovid's story, where Pygmalion's happiness was the only concern, Shaw hints at potential conflicts that may rise from these different perspectives. Mrs. Higgins also symbolizes the growing feminist movement of Shaw's time. Her character reflects the first wave of feminism in Britain, which challenged the long-standing idea that only men's perspectives mattered. This wave of feminism criticized the idea that women were treated the same as the "criminally insane" and "had no legal identity," demanding, like Mrs. Higgins is doing for Eliza, that women's perspectives need to be heard and recognized :inline-cite[Brooks].
