---
title: With a Little Bit O' Luck
image: /l-a1.png
icon: game-icons:musical-notes
outer_style: left-[15%] top-[20%] scale-125
popover_style: bottom-1/2 translate-y-1/2  z-30 scale-75
---
Lerner continues his character-focused approach with the song "With a Little Bit O' Luck," which introduces Alfred Doolittle earlier and in greater detail than Shaw did in his play.
<!--more-->
In this song, Mr. Doolittle sings about how "with a little bit o' luck" he can avoid work and his responsibilities as a parent :inline-cite[Lerner]. The song also includes new scenes of heavy drinking, providing a more dramatic portrayal of his alcoholism compared to Shaw's play where it was only mentioned. This song effectively establishes Doolittle as a lower-class working man who is lazy and will avoid work at all costs. This introduction sharply contrasts with Shaw's introduction, where Doolittle is presented as a more cunning, smooth-talking character. Instead, the musical's first impression of Doolittle is more negative. Unlike in Shaw's play, where Doolittle is used to critique the morality of the upper classes, the musical's portrayal seems to reinforce class stereotypes. Doolittle's laziness might lead the audience to conclude that helping him financially would be wasteful—an idea that Shaw's play directly challenged. Lerner's decision to drop Shaw's social criticism here aligns with his primary goal for this song: to add "action that took place between the acts of the play." This shift in Doolittle's characterization and purpose demonstrates how Lerner adapted Shaw's work to suit the demands of a musical format. At the cost of the more nuanced social commentary of the original, the new song provides a more visually and aurally engaging introduction to the character, fitting the musical's need for memorable songs. This change also highlights the different priorities of Lerner's adaptation compared to Shaw's original work, emphasizing character development over explicit social criticism.
